design patterns
    are typical solutions to commonly occurring problems in software design.

Creational patterns
    These patterns provide various object creation mechanisms, which increase flexibility and reuse of existing code.
    exemple:
        Factory Method
            is a creational design pattern that provides an interface for creating objects in a superclass, but allows subclasses to alter the type of objects that will be created.
        Abstract Factory
            is a creational design pattern that lets you produce families of related objects without specifying their concrete classes.
        Builder
            is a creational design pattern that lets you construct complex objects step by step. The pattern allows you to produce different types and representations of an object using the same construction code.
        Prototype
            is a creational design pattern that lets you copy existing objects without making your code dependent on their classes.
        Singleton
            is a creational design pattern that lets you ensure that a class has only one instance, while providing a global access point to this instance.

Structural patterns
    These patterns explain how to assemble objects and classes into larger structures while keeping these structures flexible and efficient.
    exemple
        Adapter
            is a structural design pattern that allows objects with incompatible interfaces to collaborate.
        Bridge
            is a structural design pattern that lets you split a large class or a set of closely related classes into two separate hierarchies—abstraction and implementation—which can be developed independently of each other.
        Composite
            is a structural design pattern that lets you compose objects into tree structures and then work with these structures as if they were individual objects.
        Decorator
            is a structural design pattern that lets you attach new behaviors to objects by placing these objects inside special wrapper objects that contain the behaviors.
        Facade
             is a structural design pattern that provides a simplified interface to a library, a framework, or any other complex set of classes.
        Flyweight
            is a structural design pattern that lets you fit more objects into the available amount of RAM by sharing common parts of state between multiple objects instead of keeping all of the data in each object.
        Proxy
            is a structural design pattern that lets you provide a substitute or placeholder for another object. A proxy controls access to the original object, allowing you to perform something either before or after the request gets through to the original object.

Behavioral patterns
    These patterns are concerned with algorithms and the assignment of responsibilities between objects.
    exemple
        Chain of Responsibility
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you pass requests along a chain of handlers. Upon receiving a request, each handler decides either to process the request or to pass it to the next handler in the chain.
        Command
            is a behavioral design pattern that turns a request into a stand-alone object that contains all information about the request. This transformation lets you pass requests as a method arguments, delay or queue a request’s execution, and support undoable operations.
        Iterator
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you traverse elements of a collection without exposing its underlying representation (list, stack, tree, etc.).
        Mediator
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you reduce chaotic dependencies between objects. The pattern restricts direct communications between the objects and forces them to collaborate only via a mediator object.
        Memento
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you save and restore the previous state of an object without revealing the details of its implementation.
        Observer
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you define a subscription mechanism to notify multiple objects about any events that happen to the object they’re observing.
        State
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets an object alter its behavior when its internal state changes. It appears as if the object changed its class.
        Strategy
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you define a family of algorithms, put each of them into a separate class, and make their objects interchangeable.
        Template Method
            is a behavioral design pattern that defines the skeleton of an algorithm in the superclass but lets subclasses override specific steps of the algorithm without changing its structure.
        Visitor
            is a behavioral design pattern that lets you separate algorithms from the objects on which they operate.




